Korrine: Where I'm at now?
You know, I'll admit I get stuck
in certain spots where, you know,
something will trigger a memory
and be like, “wow, that stinks,” you know?
And it's tough because it's hard to move
past that when you get something like,
for example, going to the eye doctor
and hearing more bad news, like,
you know, “no, you're
never going to be able to drive.”
That's a very hard thing to hear.
[music plays]
Rebecca: What's difficult in a community like this
is that when we work from a medical model
and we look at DeafBlindness,
there creates this tremendous sense of fear
and a tremendous sense of inner turmoil
and conflict within the community,
because everybody is looking
for treatment or a cure
for their type of Usher syndrome.
You know, I'm 43 now,
I was told when I was about 15
that there would be
treatment in ten years.
I've been told this for...
...since I was 15.
And so along the way,
I had my own struggle with having to
play with hope and really,
you know, hang on every word
that these researchers and scientists
and clinicians would tell us.
Korrine: It's hard to have
somebody try and understand
what you're going through
if they're not actually going through it.
I mean, physically,
you can't put somebody in my shoes.
Obviously, I wouldn't
wish this upon anybody.
I wouldn't want anyone to experience this.
Rebecca: The medical community,
I think, are very well-intended,
but they're also incredibly careless
with the messaging, with the language.
That going deaf
and blind is something to be feared,
that we're doing everything
we can to stop it.
It makes me weepy,
I don't even know why.
It's good, though,
because I think it's important
for people to see this.
And what makes me weepy is...
Every doctor appointment
that someone goes to
is a guaranteed failure.
It's how much more you've lost.
It’s all the people around you
and what they're hoping for and expecting.
You feel all that pressure
and you measure things so clinically:
what your degrees of vision are,
what your color vision is like.
And we never talked
about the mental health.
And I cry now like almost for my younger
self, but for all of these people...
for years and years, I've said
to all of these foundations,
we need to talk about the mental health.
The more we focus
on the clinical aspects of it,
the more we walk towards
being flawed, being broken,
needing to be fixed
and the less we talk about being human
and the less we talk
about what it feels like to be alive,
what it means to create
meaning and fulfillment in your life.
And the less we give
ourselves space to mourn,
to grieve, to...
...to be someone who is living with
something that is very challenging
in a world that is not created or built for
people who are not able to see or hear.
And so my mission as one person
is to really shine light
on the mental health aspect,
because that's the only thing
I have control over.
Korrine: It is hard.
It's still hard because this
is my reality. Medical stuff
can always change and evolve,
but this is where I'm at right now.
And you know,
I've had to come to terms with that.
And it's hard.
It's really hard.
But I'm grateful
for everything that I've learned
and all the tools that I have
and assistive technology and the support.
It helps. It helps a lot.
Because I don't think I would be
as strong as I am without that,
and I don't think I would be as good
of an advocate as I am, without that.
Rebecca: We are at this pivotal moment
where I think, sadly,
Covid really sort of spotlighted
mental health for so many people.
I think that within the DeafBlind world,
it was sort of interesting
that when Covid happened
and everything started to shut down,
it was like I remember a lot of
my DeafBlind people would say,
“now you know what it feels like,” you know,
of not being able to go out in the world
and do the things that you're so
accustomed to easily doing or wanting to do.
And I think that to be able
to now have mental health
be more at the forefront in
the mainstream world has really allowed it
to become more of the forefront
for even the DeafBlind community.
And I'm so greatful for that.
[music ends]